---
layout: post
title:      "CLI Data Gem Portfolio Project"
date:       2020-07-25 23:24:47 +0000
permalink:  cli_data_gem_portfolio_project
---


I've been writing programs for a long time but never in the form a project.  All of my previous work was mainly by me for me.  I would figure out what I needed to do and then I would figure out how to do it.  Having a process like this was frustrating and a little exciting.  It's kinda cool to find out how the rest of the world does things.  That's my assumption - that we are doing things this way because it's how we'll have to do it out in "the real world".  Since I'm fairly sequence oriented I figured I would just tackle each step - one by one.  That didn't work so well.  I scanned the introduction page and found the resources at the bottom.  I started watching the videos.  Then I wanted to code-along and I couldn't find an operable IDE to use (later, another video gave a workaround for that but ...) so I started looking into transitioning to a "local" environment.  I followed the instructions for that, and... errors... Now I'm broke and have no way to move forward.  That was my first non-self-induced hurdle - the emotional ones (where to start, what to do, how to pick a resource for scraping) not withstanding, and... I'm lost.  I had managed to move through the other 214 lessons and 102 labs in just around a month ... of weekends.  I wasn't able to find much time during the week and when I did it was trying to use the browser IDE while sitting in the light of the cab of a truck.  Green and red text on a black background only work well when you can be in a dark cave.  So - I was moving along pretty quick on the days I could set aside the time.  It took about a week and some attendance in some study groups to get my local environment up and running - and configured where I could see it in any light (thank you Solarized theming!).  In the meantime, I started to explore what resources I would use for my scraping target.  I figured Google would be a good place to start - why not search for "best scrapable web pages".  It resulted with a pretty good list - enough to help me narrow down the thinking anyway.  I wasn't crazy about the results, though.  It turned out to be a lot of shopping sites and others that really didn't represent my interests and I didn't want to choose just anything to just choose something.  I decided to try to find something with sports scores but most of what I could find was not really url driven (the url stayed the same and the content changed dynamically from user interaction) and - there's not really any sports right now anyway (this was during all of the COVID shutdown).  Frustrated again, I started watching more videos and found one that was a sampling of multiple presenters of this very project.  I had met with my Educational Coach (Ann) and she pointed me to some very helpful video lectures.  If you've not met with your Educational Coach, I would suggest you take advantage of that resource.  One of the projects presented in the video had used a concert venue and their list of events for their source and another project had used events from another source.  That prompted me to think of bands that might have tour information and one of my favorite bands is the Young Dubliners.  I figured the likelihood that it would be a duplicate of someone else's project would be slim as they are a pretty obscure band - but highly recommended if you are ever able to find them.  I found their web page and yes - they did have a list of upcoming tour dates.  Looking at the source, I could tell that the background structure appeared favorable for scraping.  I had found my resource.  I had my environment in place.  I was ready to start tackling the checklist... step by step.  I found a screen capture tool to record my progress - as required.  I gathered all my previous work from my labs to use as resources for my CLI.  I had already watched the "Daily Deal" walkthrough.  The next step was building the application.  I set aside a few hours on the morning of the very day I'm writing this blog to write my application.  I had "coded-along" with the the previous few videos that I watched so I had my structure in place.  I had made my executable and had given it executable permissions.  I had arranged all of my files and adapted my "require_relative" paths to be functional without errors.  I started writing my application while I was recording - again something new for me.  I could feel that pressure for sure!  I ran into a few snags that I had to research and I figured pausing the recording would be the best use of time.  I summarized what I found once I returned - I didn't want the problem to just be magically fixed without explanation.  I finished writing and testing my app and now I'm near the end of my checklist - which is another checklist (within the checklist - yes I said it).  One of the last steps is writing a blog, which is what you are reading now.  If you are reading mine, my guess is that's because you found mine while searching for ideas for yours.  I wish you luck and much success.  Just take it step by step.
